[Music]
ten wonderful facts about our planet
you've never heard before we think we
know everything about our whole planet
but we couldn't be more wrong scientists
have already discovered a lot about the
universe but they believe there is still
much more to learn about our planet did
you know that the moon was once part of
Earth we were so surprised to find out
new amazing things that we decided to
share them with you right away number 10
Mount Everest is not the tallest
mountain in the world hawaiian mauna kea
has an altitude of 13,000 795 feet above
sea level
however the biggest part of the volcano
rests below sea level
so if measured from the base to the
summit mount akia is 33,000 475 feet
high which is four thousand four hundred
and forty-five feet taller than Mount
Everest number nine neighboring states
can have a 24-hour time difference
despite the fact that American Samoa is
only one thousand two hundred and forty
miles away from the line islands that
form part of Kiribati the time
difference between the two neighbors is
25 hours number 8 the driest place on
earth is located in Antarctica it's
commonly believed that the driest place
on earth is the Atacama Desert in Chile
that hasn't had rainfall for thousands
of years but the McMurdo Dry Valleys in
Antarctica have seen no rain for nearly
two million years the winds here can
reach speeds of 200 miles per hour
number seven fresh water represents only
three percent of all water on earth
the oceans and seas hold 97% of Earth's
water but it's salty ocean water not
suitable for drinking the remaining 3%
of total fresh water is held in glaciers
70% and lake baikal 20% number six the
world's oldest temple is about 12,000
years old
Gobekli Tepe the oldest known temple is
located in southern Turkey
researchers believe that the carvings on
the pillars prove that roughly eleven
thousand years ago a comet strike caused
the sudden temperature drop on our
planet number five the moon was once
part of earth the moon's oxygen and
titanium are very close to those on
earth Swedish scientists suggests that
some four point 36 billion years ago
planet Earth collided with hypothesized
planetary mass object theá--
leading to the formation of Earth's only
permanent natural satellite number four
continents will reunite in 250 million
years as we know an Jaya a
supercontinent that existed 335 to 175
million years ago split into two
different continents forming Laurasia
and Gondwana later the two split apart
to form all seven continents but
scientists believe the continents will
group together again in 250 to 300
million years from now and will become a
single supercontinent called Pangaea
Ultima number three a single-celled
organism caused the first mass
extinction scientists from Massachusetts
Institute of Technology suggests a
theory explaining the mass extinction
that wiped out almost 90% of all living
creatures on earth a bacteria named
methanol sir kina suddenly bloomed in
the oceans 252 million years ago
triggering the only mass extinction of
insects known to science it also gave
our Co Soares a unique opportunity to
evolve
by the way crocodiles evolved from arco
soros number two most of our planet
always lies in the dark as we know the
world's ocean occupy 71% of our planet's
surface the depth of the water exposed
to sunlight is no more than six hundred
and fifty five feet so the rest of the
water is permanently in the dark
therefore most of our planet rests in
the dark at any time of day number one
Earth's atmosphere has borders the
carmine line is an internationally
accepted line that lies at an altitude
of 62 miles above sea level although the
level of Earth's atmosphere ends much
higher this very line was recognized by
the world air Sports Federation as the
boundary between the atmosphere and
outer space did you enjoy watching the
video then don't forget to hit the like
button share it with others and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]